Update scheduler content with Slim CI jobs (#3380)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/job-settings.md

---
title: "Job settings"
description: "Learn how to create and schedule jobs in dbt Cloud for the scheduler to run. Jobs help you build observability into transformation workflows with the in-app scheduling, logging, and alerting." 
tags: [scheduler]
---

> Jobs make it easy to run dbt commands against a project in the your cloud data platform, triggered either by schedule or events. Each job run in dbt Cloud will have a run history, run status and a run overview, which provides you with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jobs make it easy to run dbt commands against a project in your cloud data platform, triggered either by schedule or events. Each job run in dbt Cloud will have a run history, run status, and a run overview, which provides you with the following:
```

- Job trigger type
- Commit SHA
- Environment name
- Sources and documentation info 
- Job run details, including run timing, [model timing data](#model-timing), and [artifacts](/docs/deploy/artifacts)
- Detailed run steps with logs and their statuses

You can create a job and configure it to run on [scheduled days and times](/docs/deploy/job-triggers#schedule-days) or enter a [custom cron schedule](/docs/deploy/job-triggers#custom-cron-schedules). 

## Prerequisites

- You must have a dbt Cloud account and [Developer seat license](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users). If you don't, you can [sign up](https://www.getdbt.com/signup/) for a [free account](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/). 
- You must have a dbt project connected to a [data platform](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections).
- You must [create and schedule a dbt Cloud job](#create-and-schedule-jobs).

> - You must have [access permission](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) to read, create, edit, or run jobs.

Reviewer: Keeping the language consistent with our role permissions
```suggestion
- You must have [access permission](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) to view, create, modify, or run jobs.
```

- You must set up a [deployment environment](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments). 

## Create and schedule jobs {#create-and-schedule-jobs}

1. Create a new job by clicking **Deploy** in the header, click **Jobs** and then **Create job**.
1. Provide a job name, for example "Hourly Customer Job". 
1. Under **Environment**, add the following:
    * **Environment** &mdash; Link to an existing deployment environment.
    * **dbt Version** &mdash; Select the dbt [version](/docs/dbt-versions/core). dbt Labs recommends inheriting the version from the environment settings.
    * **Target Name** &mdash; Define the [target name](/docs/build/custom-target-names) for any dbt cloud job to correspond to settings in your project.

>     * **Threads** &mdash; The default value is 4 [threads](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/connection-profiles#understanding-threads). Increase the thread count to increase model execution concurrency. 

Reviewer: Do you know if we need to add any caveats? "Creating too many threads will impact performance" or something like that?

Author: thanks for flagging, @matthewshaver ! 

checked with the PM. high thread count is fine

> 1. Define [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) if you wish to customize the behavior of your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) if you wish to customize the behavior of your project.
```

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/create-new-job.jpg" width="85%" title="Configuring your environment job settings"/>

5. Under **Execution Settings**, you can configure the fields needed to execute your job:

>     * **Run Timeout** &mdash; Configure the number of seconds a run will execute before it's canceled by dbt Cloud. Setting this to 0 means it'll never time out runs for that job.   

Reviewer: Changing to active coice
```suggestion
    * **Run Timeout** &mdash; Configure the number of seconds a run will execute before dbt Cloud cancels it. Setting this to 0 means it'll never time out runs for that job.   
```

    * **Defer to a previous run state** &mdash; Select a production job you want to [defer](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#deferral-and-state-comparison) to. This enables dbt Cloud to examine the artifacts from the most recent, successful run of that deferred job, enabling state comparison and rewiring of upstream dependencies to any model that doesn’t exist in the current run's schema. 
    * **Generate docs on run** checkbox &mdash; Configure the job to automatically [generate project docs](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) each time this job runs.

>     * **Run on source freshness** checkbox &mdash;  Configure [dbt source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) as the first step of this job, without breaking subsequent steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * **Run on source freshness** checkbox &mdash;  Configure [dbt source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) as the first step of the job without breaking subsequent steps.
```

    * **Commands** &mdash; Add or remove [job commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands), which are specific tasks you set in your dbt Cloud jobs.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/execution-settings.jpg" width="85%" title="Configuring your execution job settings"/>

> 6. Under the **Triggers** section, you can configure when and how dbt should trigger the job. Refer to [job triggers](/docs/deploy/job-triggers) for more details.

Reviewer: Boosting confidence in the results
```suggestion
6. Under the **Triggers** section, you can configure when and how dbt will trigger the job. Refer to [job triggers](/docs/deploy/job-triggers) for more details.
```

- Job trigger type
- Commit SHA
- Environment name
- Sources and documentation info 
- Job run details, including run timing, [model timing data](#model-timing), and [artifacts](/docs/deploy/artifacts)
- Detailed run steps with logs and their statuses

You can create a job and configure it to run on [scheduled days and times](/docs/deploy/job-triggers#schedule-days) or enter a [custom cron schedule](/docs/deploy/job-triggers#custom-cron-schedules). 

## Prerequisites

- You must have a dbt Cloud account and [Developer seat license](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users). If you don't, you can [sign up](https://www.getdbt.com/signup/) for a [free account](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/). 
- You must have a dbt project connected to a [data platform](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections).
- You must [create and schedule a dbt Cloud job](#create-and-schedule-jobs).
- You must have [access permission](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) to read, create, edit, or run jobs.
- You must set up a [deployment environment](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments). 

> - Your deployment environment must be on dbt version 1.0 or higher

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
We don't need this anymore

## Create and schedule jobs {#create-and-schedule-jobs}

1. Create a new job by clicking **Deploy** in the header, click **Jobs** and then **Create job**.

> 1. Provide a job name, for example "Production run". 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Provide a job name, for example "Hourly Customer Job". 
```

1. Under **Environment**, add the following:
    * **Environment** &mdash; Link to an existing deployment environment

>     * **dbt Version** &mdash; Select the environment [version](/docs/dbt-versions/core). We recommend the most recent version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * **dbt Version** &mdash; Select the dbt [version](/docs/dbt-versions/core). We recommend inheriting the version from the environment settings.
```

    * **Target Name** &mdash; Define the [target name](/docs/build/custom-target-names) for any dbt cloud job to correspond to settings in your project

>     * **Threads** &mdash; The default value will be 4 [threads](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/connection-profiles#understanding-threads)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * **Threads** &mdash; The default value will be 4 [threads](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/connection-profiles#understanding-threads). Bump the thread count to increase model execution concurrency.
```

1. Define [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) if you wish to customize the behavior of your project

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/create-new-job.jpg" width="85%" title="Configuring your environment job settings"/>

5. Under **Execution Settings**, you can configure the fields needed to execute your job:

>     * **Run Timeout** &mdash; Configure the number of seconds a run will execute before it's cancelled by dbt Cloud. Setting this to 0 means it'll never time out runs for that job.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * **Run Timeout** &mdash; Configure the number of seconds a run will execute before it's canceled by dbt Cloud. Setting this to 0 means it'll never time out runs for that job.   
```

>     * **Defer to a previous run state** &mdash; Select a production job you want to [defer](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#deferral-and-state-comparison) to. This enables dbt Cloud to examine the artifacts from the most recent, successful run of that job and determine new and modified resources. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * **Defer to a previous run state** &mdash; Select a production job you want to [defer](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#deferral-and-state-comparison) to. This enables dbt Cloud to examine the artifacts from the most recent, successful run of that deferred job, enabling state comparison and re-wiring of upstream dependencies to any model that doesn’t exist in the current run's schema. 
```

    * **Run on source freshness** checkbox &mdash;  Configure [dbt source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) as the first step of this job, without breaking subsequent steps.
    * **Commands** &mdash; Add or remove [job commands](/docs/deploy/job-commands), which are specific tasks you set in your dbt Cloud jobs.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/execution-settings.jpg" width="85%" title="Configuring your execution job settings"/>

6. Under the **Triggers** section, you can configure when and how dbt should trigger the job. Refer to [job triggers](/docs/deploy/job-triggers) for more details.

    * **Schedule** tab &mdash; Use the **Run on schedule** toggle to configure your job to run on [scheduled](/docs/deploy/job-triggers#schedule-days) days and time, or enter a [custom cron schedule](/docs/deploy/job-triggers#custom-cron-schedules).
    * **Continuous Integration** tab &mdash; Configure [continuous integration (CI)](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job) to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository.

>     * **API** tab &mdash; Use the [dbt API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/overview) to trigger a job or send events to other systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * **API** tab &mdash; Use the [dbt API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/overview) to trigger a job.
```
